Hello,
this is Bill with Service Titan Hacks.
Thanks for joining me and David and Andy
on this fireside chat.
Good morning for those on the West Coast.
Good afternoon for those on the East
Coast.
Glad you guys are here.
So we're not gonna do a demo today
or anything like that or a product
walkthrough.
Not gonna do membership sales training.
I'm just gonna talk to David with Kali
Refrigeration about the struggles that
we've had with memberships and the things
that we've done to overcome those.
You know,
in my company that some months we would
do really,
really good on memberships and other
months we would fall off.
And we didn't change our membership as far
as the pricing or the scripts.
I just couldn't figure out exactly why.
And, you know...
In David's case, he told me,
I was talking to him a couple of
weeks ago,
that SmartAC was able to help him go
from five hundred to two thousand
memberships in the last year and a half.
So I kind of want to dig into
that.
First, David, thanks for coming.
Thanks for joining me on the chat today.
Andy, thanks for being here as well.
David,
give me a little bit about your
background,
how you got in the business and
everything.
Yeah, I mean, same,
same as everybody else.
You know,
they say air conditioning doesn't,
you don't choose it, it chooses you.
My dad,
my dad been in air conditioning for my
entire life.
And then he bought this company in
companies, forty six years old,
same as me.
Since then, about twenty two,
he passed away.
So then I took it over and just
been really focused on customer retention,
customer focused like maintenance
contracts, keeping those customers,
not letting them die,
not letting them go elsewhere,
looking for somewhere else.
You know,
the climate's changed a little bit.
Back in the day when my dad ran
it, it was, you know, just go out,
fix it.
Customer's going to call you back.
Phone book, everybody was there.
They find you.
And I just saw it shifting.
We had maintenance contracts.
We didn't have a ton.
We weren't a big maintenance company.
We were just going to take care of
the customer, do what we're supposed to,
and they'll call you back.
You know,
with the shift for Google and everything
else,
Everyone's Googling air conditioning, AI,
all the smart devices.
You can ask your smart device who to
call, where to call.
They give you a recommendation.
So if I can use technology to keep
that customer in my back pocket or on
your phone, I'm right there.
Easy to click.
They push the button.
They got me.
and just making that shift to customer
retention has helped us go from basically
zero to full speed.
I mean,
we sell maintenance contracts every day.
Customers call in, Google,
wherever it's coming from, you know,
the girls up front,
that's what they're focused on.
Even though they're not a customer,
they're calling with a specific thing,
they call, they, hey,
we got this maintenance contract,
we can keep this from happening in the
future.
And we install the smart AC product.
So you talk to them about it.
Your CSRs talk to them about it.
As soon as they reach out in the
first place,
they have kind of like a script and
everything like that.
yeah yeah i mean normal stuff answer the
phone thanks for calling um what's going
on kind of get the feel for where
they're at what they're doing especially
if the first time callers try to get
all the information and um you know
because especially if they came in through
google if i can capitalize on that spend
you know that's a lot of money nowadays
that we're having to spend to get those
those people to call us from
And then we got a whole script.
I have tiered maintenance plans,
so I don't try to discriminate against,
don't want to do it.
We have maintenance plans that don't have
SmartAC,
but if I can capture them and keep
them into my sales funnel and keep the
customers where I get to go back,
keep contact with those customers,
we capture them and just keep them.
Would you say that most people choose the
SmartAC plan with the sensors,
or do you always just offer the plan
with the sensors,
or you do the app only?
No, we do.
Most of my plans are like our mid-tier.
Yeah.
That's where most everybody falls into,
and they like it because, I mean,
I was looking at it earlier on our
dashboard.
I mean,
they can book through Service Titan.
They can
anybody, they click it, it's done.
We do have older clientele that don't like
technology.
They're like, I don't want that.
I don't want you looking at my system.
That's fine.
That's great.
Hey, we can still take care of you.
But the fact that we're right there on
your phone, they can click in there,
they can text, they can chat with us,
order filters, maintenance,
even if it's broke,
they can schedule it right there at their
convenience.
If it's
do you guys um use the virtual maintenance
or do you always go out and do
visits uh we've we've done a few of
the virtuals um some of the customers
would try not to get too techy in
the you can get really techy you're
looking at all this data and you're
looking at this and you're like try to
keep it where a customer can
We've done a few here and there.
Usually we still go out and look just
because we like to in Texas,
drain lines are our nightmare.
So yes, we have water sensors.
We have all that stuff on the system
where we get alerts,
but we still like to keep tabs on
is the system still like drain lines are
staying clear.
Everything's staying clear.
And just to check on the sensors.
I mean,
you never know if an animal gets in
the attic, knock something loose,
move something.
Or the customer themselves.
They get up in the attic and they're
like, what's this?
And take it.
I've had customers call me and I don't
know where that sensor went.
I'm like, we'll come find it.
The virtuals are good.
You can get on there and just tell
the customer, hey,
everything's working great.
We're watching the system.
Nothing's going on out of the ordinary.
It looks like you run the temperature
roughly at these temperatures,
whatever it is.
You can see the return air fluctuation
temperatures and get a good idea of where
they run the system.
Yeah,
so those sensors were a lot more technical
than I thought.
They were a lot better than I thought.
So when I was looking for a solution,
what I was trying to do is prevent
truck rolls on new systems we'd installed.
So as we got better at sales,
we would gosh,
we got our average tickets up to fifteen
thousand dollars.
The customer heard about every single
option, every add on that we had,
all the IQ.
So we'd install the system.
We do a great job.
We do a great quality audit and check
out.
And then we come out six months later
And my experienced techs would want to try
to sell them something because they made
commission.
And customers were like really turned off
by that.
They were like,
You know,
they had heard everything that we offered
at that point and they either bought it
or they didn't.
So I didn't feel like there was a
lot of opportunity, you know,
within that six months, one year,
maybe even two years.
And we were up north,
so I didn't have to worry in Ohio
about, you know,
water and flooding and all that all the
time like we do down in Florida.
And also my experienced techs did not like
doing new system tune-ups either.
So I was searching on the market for
a solution that I could monitor the
systems remotely,
give the customer the peace of mind and
know that their system was operating good,
but didn't have to go out and try
to sell them something to make money.
So we started out doing it with just
every new system just got a smart AC.
That was it.
Yeah.
I mean, we put those on, you're right.
You know, technician,
if you need something for somebody to do,
you don't want to sell your seasoned
technician because obviously it costs too
much.
Yeah.
And then he goes out there and he's
like, man, I got to,
this unit's like two months old,
six months old, not even a year old.
Why am I doing a tune-up?
And that does on the new systems with
the smart AC, it's like,
we can just log in.
Hey, the unit's working fine.
Send the customer a message.
Uh,
send them a video or a message and
say, Hey, everything's working great.
No, no issues unless they, you know,
sometimes we'll get feedback.
Hey, this room's hot or this room's cold,
which is great because sometimes you don't
get all that feedback either,
but it helps with the customer, uh,
knows that you care.
You're watching,
you just didn't sell them something and
leave.
Yeah.
Right.
That makes sense.
So let's talk about that.
That five hundred to two thousand
memberships.
So how long was that?
How long did it take you to get
to that level?
We're creeping up on it about a year
and a half right now.
Getting there.
And it just goes back to really focusing,
going from just fixing it and leaving it.
versus staying and taking care of the
customer and making sure that they
understand.
I mean, my biggest one,
the easiest one for everyone,
even in
don't run your car forever and not change
the oil or not change the tires or
not change the air filter.
So we kind of break it down like
that.
This is going to monitor the system.
You got your service engine light on your
dash and your car.
This is kind of the same thing,
except you actually have an experienced
air conditioning company watching your
system for you.
So if you're away at work,
don't know the system's broke,
we're able to look and see.
And they like that.
They like the fact that we're watching and
paying attention.
Now, we fine tune some stuff.
Some customers will call them and say,
hey, we're getting these alerts.
Is everything OK?
Yeah, everything's fine.
OK,
we just wanted to check in and make
sure.
We'll dial in the system,
make adjustments as we need to the next
time we're out.
but just really going in and making sure
the customer understands that the air
conditioning system,
you gotta take care of it.
They're expensive.
They're just not,
they're not cheap like they used to be.
They're getting more and more and more
expensive, more technical,
and they just need to be taken care
of.
And they don't last as long,
especially if you don't take care of them.
I mean,
God bless them that they don't last as
long.
It's good for business.
I looked at one yesterday.
It was three years old and I'm like.
They don't make them like this anymore.
Yeah.
I mean,
as long as we take care of it
and do all the monitoring,
that rolls right into maintenance.
It's important days and days it's
installed.
So you can buy the most expensive unit
out there.
If you don't put it in and maintain
it, it's not going to last.
You think,
so you have this script that your CSR
say,
and then your techs go out and do
the service call and they kind of take
it from there and they have,
I'm sure some sort of scripting that they
say about it.
Do you think that,
the majority of the memberships are sold
before the techs even get there?
Like the CSR have enough interest?
Yeah,
my girls up front are rock solid at
it.
I mean, just like everybody,
you spit for maintenance contracts.
You get discounted service calls,
discounted repairs.
So if we can capture that up front,
because same goes to said, you know,
your seasoned tech doesn't want to go do
a maintenance call on a new system.
Seasoned tech don't really like selling
maintenance contracts either.
They like to fix stuff.
Yeah.
They don't like doing anything, man,
you know?
But then I get the gratification of
selling and fixing the unit.
And daily good maintenance is busy work,
even though it gets you back into the
house and keeps you.
It does keep you busy,
but it keeps you in front of that
customer so that you can go fix it
later.
Yeah, for sure.
That makes sense.
So the girls are front.
before the tech even sees the customer.
Do you spiff the,
the girls for selling them too?
Yeah.
So I bet that probably was a big
change when you started doing that or have
you always done it?
We've always done it.
I gave them a little bit more than,
than what we did before.
And then, um,
just because I wanted to make a big
push.
Yeah.
Or maintenance, uh, you know, keeping,
keeping these,
keeping these going and growing that
database.
Um,
I forgot what I was going to say.
That's all good, man.
That makes sense.
So I wanted to go over something as
far as lifetime value goes.
So I think that in this industry that
when we look at customer acquisition
costs,
which we pay a lot of money to
get into someone's home to get a new
customer, right?
David,
what do you think you pay for a
new customer?
Oh man,
it used to be like three fifty.
So I think with everything now, it's more.
I mean,
I think you're four or five hundred
dollars per customer just to get the phone
to ring.
Yeah.
So, I mean,
you go out and you do that first
appointment, right?
And you kind of, what I found is,
and I did this myself when I was
spending a lot of money on marketing.
I'm sure you spend a lot of money
on marketing.
I see that nice logo there.
Yeah, it used to be old and bland,
but we've spun that around.
is that you on the that's actually my
dad that's your dad oh yeah we we
wanted to do something a little different
and a lot of people in the community
knew who he was and we got rebranded
he did a great job and i get
phone calls all the time hey i like
what you do with the truck it looks
just like your dad the people that knew
they're like i don't
That's awesome.
The branding looks good.
And yeah,
but you spend four hundred and fifty,
five hundred dollars to get into someone's
home or is that just to just to
get a qualified lead that you then have
an opportunity to book?
Yeah.
I mean, Google leads,
depending on time of the year there for
a while, they were getting up there crazy.
My marketing guy told me the other day,
we're running some new some new stuff for
like zero for sale.
being better at a lower spend than some
of my other generic just just uh ad
you know your branding ads that i run
yeah and uh i think just to get
on the ring just to get the phone
to ring i'm around four four hundred fifty
dollars just just to get the phone to
ring
through Google.
So that's why I get mad too when
the guys go out and they at least
don't get a maintenance contract out of
it.
You should have walked away with at least
that.
I used to look at marketing as far
as like getting in the home,
getting an appointment.
I would look at the revenue that I
got from that appointment
as the ROI on the spend, right?
So I go out and I sell a
thousand dollars and I spent eight hundred
to get in the home.
I'd be like, well, this is a waste,
right?
I don't want to do this anymore.
But then I thought, you know,
the way that a software company looks at
it and the way bigger companies look at
it is they look at their customer
acquisition cost.
How much money do I have to spend
to get a paying customer?
And then how long do I have the
customer?
What's their lifetime value?
Right.
And so I put together,
I'm going to share this with you if
that's cool.
All right.
Put together.
Can you see it?
Okay.
Yep.
Okay,
I put together this customer revenue
tracker.
And what I did was,
all I needed for this was the customer
ID from Service Titan.
So I got this data from my Service
Titan before I sold my company.
Customer ID, the job value,
like the total revenue from the job,
and then the completed date of the job.
And so I had maybe like...
seven years of data in there and I
put in my cost per lead.
And so for you,
I just put in five hundred.
And then what is your booking rate?
And so your customer acquisition costs six
hundred and twenty five dollars to get in
the door.
Right.
And so I had all of these jobs
and I found out that within one month
of having
customer a new customer i got eleven
hundred dollars on average from those
customers now there were some customers
that were eighty nine dollar diagnostics
only and i never worked for them again
there were some on the other end that
turned into twenty five thousand dollar
system sale right so this is just totally
blended across all of those
And then I started to look, I said,
well,
I wonder how much more money those
customers get or give me over their life,
right?
So after two months,
how much do I get?
And obviously it wasn't tons after two
months because usually you do the work for
them,
you don't see them for a little while.
But as we start to go out,
I noticed that the lifetime value of the
customer obviously increased, right?
Right.
So right here,
when I was looking at that eleven hundred
dollars,
if I looked back and I just put
in my gross profit margin.
it wouldn't really even make sense to
spend six hundred and twenty five dollars
on a customer if you were going to
have them for one month.
Right.
And one visit.
But as we kept them,
here was our break even.
And as you can see,
it went longer and longer.
And what that was,
is that was our members that we went
to every six months or every year that
would eventually buy a replacement system,
which was that, you know,
that big that big chunk of money.
So
What's that?
I said, that's what you're chasing.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
And I mean,
I think that and I have that calculator
I can share, share with you guys.
Let me close that down.
Get it in there.
right that's great bill i'm glad you
shared that that's yeah that's exactly
what we're seeing that maturity aspect
everyone's chasing roi very um i'd say
aggressively but the reframing that you
just did is so important it's that because
that over a two year and three year
period yeah if returns come back we're
running some analysis on david's account
um this week and looking at and he's
about eighteen months in
And he's got great leading indicators of
where everything's headed on sell-through
rate, job bookings, all that.
But I literally made the statement to him,
it's about account maturity at every
location.
And so you have to be great at
retention doing that.
But that retention over time,
we see it's a real compounding effect for
your entire membership base.
If you're converting at a higher rate,
which David is,
he's doing a fantastic job on that.
His sell-through rate's two X on his smart
plans versus legacy.
And his retention has been fantastic.
And so those two things combined,
that CLV is great, man.
That's a really cool chart, buddy.
Pull it up.
Yeah, thanks.
I appreciate it.
I talked to other contractors who always
wanted to quit their marketing efforts
because they didn't see the ROI fast
enough.
And I just thought about it like, man,
if you buy a stock,
do you really expect a thirty day return
or you're getting rid of the stock?
How long if I put six hundred and
twenty five dollars out there,
how long can I wait before it's returned
to me and still like the marketing
channel?
So what I put together that that
calculator is very simple, right?
It doesn't have like your specific
marketing channels.
It doesn't have all of the residential
versus commercial.
So I've seen the calculators that you guys
put together.
It's obviously a lot more in depth than
that.
But I just wanted something simple that
Service Titan companies could easily
upload into a system and check it out.
But you guys have,
can you kind of tell me a little
bit about how your analysis works?
Sure.
With LTV and membership retention and
everything?
Sure.
Yeah, well, I think you nailed it.
And then it's about the time span that
you're reviewing it.
So the way we look at it is
when we first work with somebody,
we always try to make sure that they've
got legacy benchmarks in place.
And so sometimes they do,
sometimes they don't have the complexity.
And if not,
we try to help put that together because
we want to know where we're starting and
want to identify where the key areas we're
trying to improve on.
And then right out of the gate,
we're really looking at,
are you doing the operational activities
that lead to true change?
So like David said,
we increased our commission plan a little
bit to drive a little incentive that you
would not believe how important those
things are.
Because a renewed sense of interest from
the employees drives a lot of engagement.
And right out of the gate,
you're setting the right path.
So we look at things like that.
We look at the sensor.
We call it verified install rate.
Is it going in where you can actually
see data from the system?
Because the better the data is,
the better the insights,
the more likely you're going to be able
to go or not go to the home
to save truck rolls or go when you
want the revenue.
um so we kind of put together what
was a list of like operational uh
indicators um that you're doing the right
activities you structured the plan the
right way people are aligned and you're
doing the right things and then over time
we have like benchmark hurdles so let's
say after six months you look back and
we look at some basic things like how
is your revenue per ticket change um how's
your truck roll per home um like are
you continuing to go the right way and
are the numbers starting to add up
We can't put a really, I'd say,
meaningful, complicated,
full membership P&L ROI together until
you've got about two years of data.
But what we can do every step along
the way,
look at the activities that lead towards
that.
And we've got customers that have been
there long enough that we can build
literally a line by line, complete P&L,
their entire membership program and tell
them exactly what they're making,
what they were doing before,
what they're making now.
and the exact to the cent dollar value
that SmartIC has brought to them.
But that takes time because as you pointed
out,
most of your revenue isn't returned in
year one.
When you think about how this transition
happens, they called you to fix something.
And if your people did their job,
they just did a great service,
a great repair or a great replacement,
that thing's running well.
The chances of you being back to fix
something on that system in that first
year are actually pretty low.
Yeah, right.
Where you do get the opportunity is having
a water sensor or something in there
because those things can change rapidly.
They have nothing to do with the actual
performance, the delta T of the system.
But really,
we start to see that tipping point and
in that eighteen to twenty four months,
that's when the repeat revenue starts.
And then in year three,
like it's a big job.
So you think that someone to ask you,
Andy,
do
Contractors come to you like looking to
improve their memberships.
Is that kind of how they find you
on the membership side?
Is it more about the sensors?
What kind of what kind of things you
think introduced that conversation?
It's absolutely evolved over time.
We created a platform that's a hardware
software product mix to help overall
customer engagement, customer attention.
what's evolved over time is we realized
there was a gap in the market about
true knowledge of customer buying
practices and customer psychology uh
customer experience and use of data and
how to operationalize some of those things
into having a better program that's more
profitable so our business is kind of
split right now half of it is all
the technology and the cool stuff that we
make but a huge part of it is
the consulting services that we bring
from the time somebody signs a contract
and we don't we don't charge for any
of that stuff that's all part of it
but we realized if we didn't help the
customer activate these things and bring
that knowledge base share best practices
create benchmarks and drive a real focus
on the program then it didn't get done
in the way that was possible
Yeah.
So we figure out our best chance for
success was to make them successful at
something.
Quite honestly,
they could pay somebody else to come in
and do tell them a lot of the
same things.
We just do it as coupled with a
part of our thing so that to try
and make it easier.
So when you go back to the data
side of it, do you, gosh,
I would imagine a lot of contractors don't
have great historical data.
So do you help them like clean that
up or anything?
Because, man,
I've seen so many contractors service
Titan and it's just, it's like,
I don't think I can really get valuable
data out of this.
Right.
Especially if it's imported from a legacy
system.
So is there a way to help contractors
get that so they can kind of understand
where they are on the baseline?
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah.
If it's if we don't have the knowledge
in-house and we know the service side
pretty well,
but we are we are not service side
integrators.
We're not experts.
So we've actually partnered with these
success organizations and service
integrators that will will pay for them to
come in and do benchmark audits and set
up like the initial benchmarking.
And then we also pay for them to
do the prelaunch audit to go make sure
that everything's set up from an
accounting standpoint,
operational tagging, all that.
So that when the program actually launches
and runs,
you can track it right and you can
actually look at the operational
activities and make sure everything's
going the right way.
Because you're right.
Service Titan can be truly wonderful and
it can be truly frustrating depending on
the level of expertise you have in-house
or that you've paid for or how you're
set up.
Yeah, for sure.
I mean,
that's probably why the Service Titan
Hacks group exists and has ten thousand
members, right?
A little bit of the frustration that comes
behind it.
It's a behemoth and a lot of time
is invested in
uh by contractors to try to understand it
right and get it get it optimized so
that's nice that you that you help
contractors with the service titan through
that third party and really help them
understand the membership programs i mean
i never gosh i think that the way
that i came up with my membership program
is went
How was that?
I just looked at my competitor's website,
saw what the features were and said,
all right, we'll do it like that.
And I just got killed on it.
I just got killed on it.
And you know what?
You go back to it, David,
where you spiff the ladies on the phone.
I never did that.
It was such a bad idea not to
do that.
Like you said,
your first maintenance contracts were just
looking.
That's how we were too.
We just pulled something out of thin air
and was like, hey,
let's see if this works.
And
And when we partnered with SmartAC and
they gave us a whole new way to
look at it and they helped us build
out everything.
And then I'm like, okay, well then let's,
let's go and then building out the spiffs
and the guys get spiffs,
the girls get spiffs.
So it's whoever sells it, gets it.
And it's,
it was a complete game changer the way
they, they look at it.
Smart AC looks at it a little different
than what we do as contractors.
So they've been great to work with helping
us figure it all out and getting it
all lined out and then help behind the
scenes.
If we have issues with it, it's,
it's been, you know, we have our lady,
we call,
be done, she's on it.
Do you have the integration with
ServiceTitan set up?
Yeah, yeah.
So we can go in.
That's what I was looking at earlier.
So when the customer goes into the app
and then they book the call through the
SmartAC app,
it automatically books straight over into
ServiceTitan.
So it's populated in there and ready to
go.
So all we have to do is just
confirm it, make sure everything's there,
and schedule it.
nerds, stuff like that,
it automatically moves those into Service
Titan so that in the mornings, the CSRs,
they see all those and they reaching out
to those customers.
Kind of like drops in as a booking
notification, like a web.
Middle of the night, whatever,
even like I was saying earlier,
the customer,
if they go in and book it, it's,
it's automatically dropped in.
They don't have to go to smart AC
dashboard and get all that,
drag it over here.
It's just moves right in.
And then you have all your info is
already there.
You have the branded app or is it
the smart AC one?
Or is it the one that's branded with
your logo on it?
It's got our logo and everything.
Yeah.
It's pretty cool, man.
I felt,
I felt like talking about the marketing
side of it.
I mean, yeah, now you're in their phone.
You actually take up real estate on their
phone.
So you're right there every day.
They look at through their phone.
If, if,
it's there and they just click it and
you're done.
So there's no more ad spend for that
customer to call through Google or
Facebook or wherever you're advertising,
Yelp, all that stuff.
you guys um use like the push
notifications for sending out maintenance
reminders or specials or anything like
that or do you kind of just use
it more as a way that the customer
communicates back to you when they have an
issue a lot of it is customer coming
to us um we'll use it for you
know to to try to trigger if we
need to get a hold of that customer
Service Titan takes a lot of care of
a lot of that stuff,
like maintenance reminders and stuff.
We have all that set up with emails
via there.
But if the customers aren't responding or
receptive to all of our avenues,
then we'll use everything to try to get
them in there.
Because you always get the phone calls
where, hey,
I never got this or you never did
this.
So we try to eliminate all that the
best we can.
Do you have your techs install them or
do you have the installers install them
like the sensors?
So we leave it all to the techs.
So the technicians,
they keep the kits on their trucks.
She keeps like four or five kits on
every truck.
So the service guys will go out on
new systems, service guys go out,
commission the system,
make sure it's all working like it's
supposed to, install that.
uh install the smart ac get the customer
to download the app walk them through the
entire setup so they'll make sure that
they can log into the app make sure
they set it up make sure they understand
how to use it before they leave yeah
for sure that makes sense um
So one of the things that we used
to do in our membership, again,
this was just copy and paste from our
competitors.
We would give a two hundred and fifty
dollars off of a replacement AC or furnace
and five hundred dollars off a replacement
full system.
But then when I went to Smart AC,
there's another thing I didn't know.
They have these credits that a customer
would build up in their app.
And so SmartAC helped me figure out how
to convert that dollar amount into credits
in the app.
And how do you use those credits?
We call them polycredits.
What's that?
Yeah.
And so you'll get a bonus,
sign up bonus,
depending on which level you sign up for.
and then every month that you're on the
on the program you get x amount of
of points to that and so the app
keeps up with everything app service titan
actually integrates in there too so we can
go in their service titan and see their
account balance there too oh it's pretty
neat um
So what we do is any service over
five hundred dollars,
we let the customer use those credits for
anything, whether it's duct cleaning,
IAQ products, new system, whatever it be.
Like right now, we're running ads for,
you know,
dryer vent cleaning with all the winter
time, everybody running their clothes,
heavy loads of clothes, doing dryer vents.
We've had people, hey,
can I use my credits for that?
That's fine.
Let's use them.
makes them you're giving something back to
them yeah instead of just discounting
stuff hey if you buy from me i'll
give you these uh but it accumulates up
i've had some customers go in and spend
thousands more dollars with me because
they had a two hundred and fifty dollar
credit bonus you know they'll spend two or
three thousand dollars and use the two
hundred and fifty so i mean like a
gift card right they almost feel like they
have to use it
Right.
Yeah.
And then along with that, you know,
on our top tier plan,
we also offer filter credits so they get
X amount of dollars.
They can they can order their filters.
You can order your filters at any time
through the app.
But we give them a discount on the
filters as well.
Yeah, that's right.
So it keeps them from going to Home
Depot or Lowe's and going down the filter
aisle because we all know who's standing
at the end of the filter aisle is
the Home Depot AC salesman trying to sell.
Yeah,
with a nine dollar ninety five cent tune
up.
Right.
Somebody posted that and I was like nine
dollars.
Yeah.
It's like,
I got to get this high out here.
Right.
I want to see what his conversion rate
is.
Right.
Yeah.
Everybody gets one no matter what.
Right.
Yeah.
Those credits are pretty good idea.
Do you,
do you still give discounts on the front
end?
Like when they purchased the,
the maintenance plan the smart ac or do
you um just give the deal with the
on the credit side if that makes sense
so so the it's the monthly they can
pay all up front if they want to
monthly payments and then it's just that
flat and then you know for any repairs
or anything we have discounts built in
ours is a discount on repairs um and
then they get a sign up bonus so
if there's any major repairs that's there
for really for first-time customers that
are calling you with a problem
and they sign up with your maintenance,
you give them the sign up bonus and
the different things to show them and get
them moving on the plan and lock that
customer in.
When you switched over to this,
did you change your plans at all or
were they kind of the same?
um we changed them a little bit our
pricing actually went up we're actually
more expensive than we were before which
everybody was kind of like we can't go
up people are you know complaining of the
price already and there are other people
in my area that do it cheaper yeah
and i'm like
we have a better product.
We're better.
You're always going to have that though,
right?
There's always somebody who'll do it
cheaper,
even though it's not the same thing.
Yeah, it's a better product.
It's better.
We're a little bit more expensive,
but there's more bells and whistles.
And, you know,
like on our top tier plan,
You talked about it.
I knew that dog would start barking.
I knew it.
You talked about it.
On our top tier plan,
we offer lifetime repairs on lifetime
warranty on repairs.
As long as they stay on plan,
if you pay me to change a condenser
fan motor,
you'll never pay for that fan motor again
as long as you stay on our maintenance
plan.
Even if it goes out five years from
now, you know, we'll change it free,
parts and labor.
As long as you didn't miss any repairs,
any monthly payments.
Yeah, that makes sense.
What happens,
do you like go back and get the
sensors if they miss the payments or...
You haven't had a lot of cancellations.
We've had a few.
People move.
People do different things.
I try to get the new homeowners
information, try to make it transferable.
Hey,
we'll just let the new homeowners have it
just to keep up with them.
I've had a few.
We do have a cancellation fee.
Mm-hmm.
So at that point, I'm like,
just let me have my gear back.
No questions asked.
Let me come get it.
We won't pressure you in anything.
We mutually agree to part ways.
Go get the equipment.
We'll bring it back.
And I think we figured out a way
to just repurpose the equipment.
We'll clear it all out and redistribute it
somewhere else.
As long as everything's working and we got
everything there.
Yeah.
I hate that.
I've even gone to the point where some
people have like, well,
we didn't really use it or we didn't
see the value.
And I'm like, hey,
keep it for another year for free.
Let's just try it.
Because I mean,
at least then I'm still with that
customer.
I didn't lose them.
I know you're going to lose that money,
but I'd rather play long term.
Like we talked about earlier,
I want to keep them for years,
two or three years.
I want to stay long term.
Yeah.
And I think about that, like when I,
so I added plumbing to my HVAC company,
let's see,
when I was maybe eight years in and
I looked at it and I was like,
man, if I would have had more members,
that would have been a great plumbing
opportunities right there.
Now, I mean,
I had the list of customers that I
could reach out to,
but when they're a member,
it's a totally different feeling, right?
Or a totally different relationship you
have.
Then your lifetime value of the customer
increases because you add water heaters
and all their plumbing and underground and
everything.
So that graph that I showed just goes
up at a serious rate to do multiple
trades.
So that's, again,
why the retention is so important.
Well, that's why I've talked to you.
You could take extra water sensors and add
them onto it.
You can put them in the water heater
pans.
You can put them under kitchen sinks.
You can put them anywhere that there's
water or had been water issues.
Yeah.
When you label them,
if you've got plumbing, plumbing business,
or the customer just wants to know,
got that,
or even if you're in freeze areas there,
you know, the, the,
the sensors will tell you it's about to
freeze in the attic.
We got a lot of it at first
until we dialed it in and we're like,
what are these?
And then we first got on it and
we're like, oh, that's what that is.
We don't need that down here.
I mean, we don't, temperatures dropping,
but it wasn't that important for the
customers.
They were getting alerts.
We're like, okay,
we'll tweak it and get rid of that.
But that's, I mean, added value.
We can tell you if it's a vacation
home, hey, it's getting cold down here.
Your pipes are going to freeze.
Yeah, for sure.
Well, where's your company located?
You probably don't have a lot of that.
You said you're in Texas.
No, we're in Houston.
I'm about an hour south of Houston,
but I do go into Houston for stuff.
We're down on the coast.
Houston, Galveston.
We're to the left of Galveston,
straight down Lake Jackson, Freeport.
Clueda's home base.
Yeah, that's awesome.
So yeah, I'm in South Florida,
but my AC,
my heating and AC company was in Columbus,
Ohio.
So didn't have, like I said,
didn't have to worry about the water
issues up there.
There was plumbing issues,
but there wasn't all of these air handlers
that were leaking water all into the drain
plant drain pan like they have down here.
So I see so many comments in our
community Facebook group about that.
And so I just think like, hey,
smart AC would have sent out an alert
and you can get- You almost have to
have in our climate, Florida, Texas,
a sheet rocker on payroll.
Sometimes, not only for water,
but just guys accidentally hitting the
sheet rock, being clumsy in a hurry.
running thermostat wire,
falling through ceilings, you know,
I fell through a few.
Have you?
Yeah.
It's not funny, but yeah.
Awesome.
So yeah, man, I'm, you know,
that's great that you're able to grow your
memberships like that.
I'm sure it's really going to be,
it's really been awesome for your business
and keep it up and everything.
And, uh,
If any of the listeners want to learn
a little bit more about SmartAC and how
it works,
I'm going to send you guys a link
through the email,
everybody that was on the call today live
and everyone that registered.
And Andy,
when they put their information into that,
what does SmartAC do?
What are you guys going to give them
or show them?
That's a good question.
I probably should have aligned with my
marketing team for this.
So it depends.
If it's a link to our landing page,
there'll be an area where they can book
directly through that.
They can book a demo and one of
our people will get on with them.
If it's just the information, they say,
I'm interested in learning more,
then it'll be one of our account
executives that will reach out and
Talk to them and just do a little
discovery and say what interested you or
what's the state of your business?
What are your primary concerns and pain
points?
Because everyone's different, right?
I'll talk to someone really in thirty
minutes that will say,
I can't sell memberships.
My conversion is terrible,
but they love me.
And then the very next call will be,
I'm amazing at selling them,
but I'm losing fifty percent every twelve
to eighteen months.
Right.
Everybody's got a different thing.
And so it's a part of that discovery
to say, what can we help you with?
And yeah,
each business is in a different place.
Perfect.
I'm going to I'm going to pull these
comments up on screen if you guys can
see them.
Let me kind of minimize this.
OK, here we go.
All right, so here's what we got.
Go through some of those.
So Christina asks,
is SmartAC an actual system or is this
a feature that's added to new unit
installs?
Andy,
do you want to answer that for Christina?
Sure.
Yeah,
it's a complete independent hardware and
software platform.
It's a set of sensors that get added.
It can be added to any home.
It doesn't matter the OEM or the
thermostat.
It takes about ten to fifteen minutes for
a technician to put it in place.
No tools, no wiring, super easy.
um and then all of that data comes
back to us via the cloud we process
it all and the interactions between us and
the homeowner the homeowner contractor all
that is taken care of through our back-end
architecture and our software and then
contractors get an enterprise dashboard
separately that they can look at all the
details they don't have to all of our
stuff integrates directly into service
titan for operational workflow
um so we it is a separate thing
but we try to make it so you
don't actually have to do anything
differently than the way you know operate
the business every day which is you know
book calls and run service awesome let's
see here so
Wes asked,
what do you spiff them for selling a
plan?
So yeah, David,
what do they get when they sell?
I mean, the minimum plan is twenty bucks.
The top plan is twenty five.
So it's not it's not a ton,
but it's it's enough to change the hourly
rate for an hour.
For me,
it doesn't take that much to install.
It's easy.
It's just a short discussion.
One of the things we like to do
when we first start working on a new
launch,
we do what's called a quick start bonus.
That's paid directly from Smart AC to the
technicians,
where we'll actually double that rate.
And we do that for some period of
time,
to really motivate the tech to get used
to the new technology and the change,
because there's some different change.
You have to say a few different things
on site and take ten to fifteen minutes
to install it.
But that motivation really gets them
comfortable.
And then one of the things we do
over time is when we share the economics,
we say, look,
you're currently spiffing on this amount.
You could double that.
And it doesn't make a meaningful
difference in your overall program profit.
But if it makes a meaningful difference in
their motivation.
Right.
And so that's where it's all about dialing
that in and figuring out what drives
people.
Right.
And so it could be five dollars in
some cases or, you know, twenty dollars.
Yeah.
Some of my guys, some of my guys,
when we went through that and they did
pretty well,
they got a thousand dollars or more.
Some of the guys.
So it was good.
It kept them motivated.
It's perfect.
Yeah.
Teresa asked,
can you share the script your CSRs use?
So I don't know if you have one,
probably not with you.
Yeah, I can get one.
They have copies of them up there.
They got a whole book they keep beside
them and she flips over to it when
she does that, got it tabbed out,
little binder for all the different things
that she has.
And she keeps it open to that,
but I can get it together,
get it to you.
A lot of comments.
Thanks for all the comments.
Wes did share a link here to SmartAC,
to that demo where you can get more
information.
All right, perfect.
Does anybody else have any other questions
that we haven't answered?
Anything else?
I have a question for David.
how how long from the time you said
i want to do this till you were
up and running what was that
implementation period like oh man uh i
think y'all had me when i said let's
do it i was up and running in
a week
fast well and it helped too i mean
y'all are close to me fortunately um right
there in houston um but uh yeah i
think we were up and running on a
week did the whole uh setup i think
it took us longer really just to dial
in the uh the the new maintenance plans
it took a few days um and then
uh
got everything together, did a webinar,
a Zoom meeting,
just to get all the guys up to
speed.
And then it was pretty painless.
It was pretty easy once you got all
the guys on board with what was going
to happen, how it was going to work.
unfortunately i went through a couple
other painful uh monitoring programs i
won't mention and uh finally finally made
my way to smart ac and so they
they already had some negative
connotations they were just like man
really you're doing this again we're the
last two didn't work i'm like i promise
we got it let's go like if this
work we won't do it anymore and um
it's been great ever since uh
Even though everyone's been on board.
So once they got past that,
I had to fight that a little bit
at the beginning,
but y'all had us up and running in
about a week, say really strong two weeks,
but you can be up and running in
a week if everything's ready to roll.
Perfect.
Took me a little bit longer than that
to do it,
but I went back and forth on changing
the plans because I wasn't really
confident in the plans we offered.
And so I asked SmartAC,
what's the best practice that you have for
plans?
And the ones that they showed me,
the different options were different than
what I had.
So I think I took a little bit
too long picking what our plans were going
to be and how the credits were going
to work and everything.
So I could see where you could get
it going a little bit faster than that.
I just was kind of, we,
we did have some tiered plans before,
but we didn't really push the tiered plans
because they weren't really,
they weren't really offering anything
extra ordinary like we do now.
So it was easy to just adapt the
tiering and, but yeah.
And then we were able to go pick
up, you know,
aside from shipping and stuff,
we were able just to go up and
grab what we needed and get it back
here in a timely manner.
So we had them on hand pretty quick.
I forgot when y'all came out,
but maybe a month or two after one
of your tech guys came out and actually
did some ride-alongs to make sure we were
all okay.
They all liked that.
They thought it was cool that they
actually came out and did some one-on-one
showing the guys best practices and how to
do it.
Appreciate that.
We're, you know, we're still early enough.
We got to,
we got to prove our worth, man.
So we're happy.
I mean,
we love it when people let us on
site.
I mean, we learn, you know,
we learn as much as I'm sure that
the technicians learn about the product.
Yeah.
I mean, yeah.
So Philip asks,
is there a way to market this in
an email campaign?
Is there a way to allow the clients
to self-checkout?
So you want to,
who wants to take that?
Andy, you want to take that?
Yeah, so it's a great question.
And with the emergence of a lot of
the AI outbound or AI agentic text message
related interactions,
we're starting to see that become a lot
more popular trend.
where we're actually driving people
through the engagement process in the very
beginning without a human involved.
So I would say historically,
it hasn't been strong.
There have been some companies that will
help you put e-commerce sites up where you
can buy membership over the phone or over
the internet.
um not great adoption rates because
sometimes it takes a person uh or a
ai to to do a little bit of
back and forth as to why it's so
valuable um but yeah i'd say that i
would venture to say that by the end
of this year that will probably be one
of the the biggest changes um in the
industry is you're going to see a lot
more
agent-based outbound engagement where less
humans are involved in the process,
but you're reaching a transaction.
We use an AI after hours and the
AI will,
if they're a new customer or anything,
don't have a maintenance contract,
it will offer for them.
It won't actually book it or do any
of the things,
but it'll offer it and give a little
bit of an explanation and then it'll dump
that info into Service Titan for the next
day.
for the CSR to bring it back up
that they were interested.
So we've got another question.
This is for Andy.
Do you guys have example tiered
maintenance plans?
You know what?
I remember you showed me some examples
when I first started.
Yeah, we do.
Absolutely, we do.
But I will always say one size doesn't
fit all because
To David's point,
you have to know how to present a
tiered plan.
If your techs are not good at walking
through good, better, best,
or telling that homeowner a value
differentiation,
then you can actually muddle it up with
tiered plans.
he said so it really needs to fit
the skill set um the ladies he's got
up front can talk through that well
because they were doing it previously but
now they have better differentiation if
you've never done a tier plan you're going
from non-tiered to tiered it's important
to look at that talk through that but
um but yeah we've got we've got examples
for single plan
uh for two and for three and and
we want to know how your team is
set up and make sure that it's going
to launch with success and know that we
make you may scrap it sixty days in
and be like tier's not working we need
to go back to a single right that's
okay like that's part of the iteration of
getting better but it's about doing
intentionally tracking it and making sure
that you're you know making meaningful
progress would you say most contractors do
multi-tier plans rather than a single one
from what you've seen
um man i i probably not i would
say i get as many single this is
what we do one plan as we do
um you know the two or the three
plans i would uh it's a hard hard
press to point to a lot of success
for people that go more than three it
starts to become very complicated when you
start
you know layering on even more and more
and more you have to try and find
reasons why tier six is different than
tier one you know but um but i'd
say it's uh yeah it's probably an even
split you know a third single third two
a third three like and just depending on
um the nature of the business if you're
hvac only if you're hvac and plumbing or
you've got electrical like there's you
know again there's some nuances there um
but that's what we do every day as
we work to get us to
figure those things out and try to
represent some examples that we think will
be best for how you will succeed in
the market.
Awesome.
So Teresa has a question.
Are your tier plans related to the number
of units that the customer has?
No.
Number of units, it's the same price.
If you're going to charge them twenty
dollars a month,
it's twenty dollars a month for each unit.
The tiering is do you want, you know,
do
warranty versus not lifetime warranty ad
one no maintenance call no call out fees
versus a discounted call out fee so it's
really customize it however you want to
you can do it that way i i
don't mine's typically benefits and
features yeah that makes sense
So yeah, Stephanie,
you can add the sensors for plumbing also.
And so you can add more sensors than
normally come in the kit, right?
So they come with,
each kit comes with a supply and return.
temperature and humidity sensor in one
unit and then a leak detection sensor.
But you can buy separate leak detection
sensors, right?
Yeah,
you can buy more leak detectors and you
can buy more supply sensors too because
you can do them on zone systems.
You can have them on different zones in
the house.
Awesome.
Great.
Thanks for that.
all right so we're coming up on our
time here thank you for all the questions
andy and david thanks for joining me today
it was great talking to you and i
will send this replay out and i will
also send out some of the answers to
these questions so you guys have them and
i appreciate you guys joining me today all
right yeah for sure have a good one